<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>New Hampshire</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<article id="new-hampshire" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">New Hampshire</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I met a lady from the South who said</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(You won’t believe she said it, but she said it):</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“None of my family ever worked, or had</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A thing to sell.” I don’t suppose the work</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Much matters. You may work for all of me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve seen the time I’ve had to work myself.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The having anything to sell<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" epub:type="noteref">1</a> is what</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is the disgrace in man or state or nation.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I met a traveller from Arkansas</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who boasted of his state as beautiful</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For diamonds and apples. “Diamonds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And apples in commercial quantities?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I asked him, on my guard. “Oh yes,” he answered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Off his. The time was evening in the Pullman.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I see the porter’s made your bed,” I told him.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I met a Californian who would</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Talk California⁠—a state so blessed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He said, in climate none had ever died there</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A natural death, and Vigilance Committees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had had to organize to stock the graveyards</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And vindicate the state’s humanity.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Just the way Steffanson runs on,” I murmured,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“About the British Arctic. That’s what comes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of being in the market with a climate.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I met a poet from another state,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A zealot full of fluid inspiration,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who in the name of fluid inspiration,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in the best style of bad salesmanship,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Angrily tried to make me write a protest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(In verse I think) against the Volstead Act.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He didn’t even offer me a drink</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until I asked for one to steady <em>him</em>.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is called having an idea to sell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It never could have happened in New Hampshire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The only person really soiled with trade</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I ever stumbled on in old New Hampshire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was someone who had just come back ashamed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From selling things in California.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’d built a noble mansard roof with balls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On turrets like Constantinople, deep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In woods some ten miles from a railroad station,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if to put forever out of mind</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hope of being, as we say, received.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I found him standing at the close of day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inside the threshold of his open barn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a lone actor on a gloomy stage⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And recognized him through the iron grey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In which his face was muffled to the eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As an old boyhood friend, and once indeed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A drover with me on the road to Brighton.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His farm was “grounds,” and not a farm at all;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His house among the local sheds and shanties</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rose like a factor’s at a trading station.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he was rich, and I was still a rascal.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I couldn’t keep from asking impolitely,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where had he been and what had he been doing?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How did he get so? (Rich was understood.)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In dealing in “old rags” in San Francisco.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh it was terrible as well could be.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We both of us turned over in our graves.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Just specimens is all New Hampshire has,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One each of everything as in a show-case</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which naturally she doesn’t care to sell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She had one President (pronounce him Purse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And make the most of it for better or worse.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s your one chance to score against the state).</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She had one Daniel Webster. He was all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Daniel Webster ever was or shall be.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She had the Dartmouth needed to produce him.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I call her old. She has one family</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose claim is good to being settled here</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before the era of colonization,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And before that of exploration even.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>John Smith remarked them as he coasted by</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dangling their legs and fishing off a wharf</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the Isles of Shoals, and satisfied himself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They weren’t Red Indians but veritable</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pre-primitives of the white race, dawn people,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like those who furnished Adam’s sons with wives;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>However uninnocent they may have been</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In being there so early in our history.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They’d been there then a hundred years or more.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pity he didn’t ask what they were up to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At that date with a wharf already built,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And take their name. They’ve since told me their name⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Today an honored one in Nottingham.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As for what they were up to more than fishing⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Suppose they weren’t behaving Puritanly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hour had not yet struck for being good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mankind had not yet gone on the Sabbatical.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It became an explorer of the deep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not to explore too deep in others’ business.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Did you but know of him, New Hampshire has</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One real reformer who would change the world</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So it would be accepted by two classes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Artists the minute they set up as artists,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before, that is, they are themselves accepted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And boys the minute they get out of college.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I can’t help thinking those are tests to go by.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And she has one I don’t know what to call him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who comes from Philadelphia every year</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a great flock of chickens of rare breeds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He wants to give the educational</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Advantages of growing almost wild</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Under the watchful eye of hawk and eagle⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dorkings because they’re spoken of by Chaucer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sussex because they’re spoken of by Herrick.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She has a touch of gold. New Hampshire gold⁠—<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" epub:type="noteref">2</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>You may have heard of it. I had a farm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Offered me not long since up Berlin way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a mine on it that was worked for gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But not gold in commercial quantities.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just enough gold to make the engagement rings</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And marriage rings of those who owned the farm.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What gold more innocent could one have asked for?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One of my children ranging after rocks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lately brought home from Andover or Canaan</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A specimen of beryl with a trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of radium. I know with radium</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The trace would have to be the merest trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To be below the threshold of commercial,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But trust New Hampshire not to have enough</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of radium or anything to sell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A specimen of everything, I said.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She has one witch⁠—old style.<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" epub:type="noteref">3</a> She lives in Colebrook.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(The only other witch I ever met</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was lately at a cut-glass dinner in Boston.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There were four candles and four people present.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The witch was young, and beautiful (new style),</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And open-minded. She was free to question</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her gift for reading letters locked in boxes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why was it so much greater when the boxes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were metal than it was when they were wooden?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It made the world seem so mysterious.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The S’ciety for Psychical Research</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was cognizant. Her husband was worth millions.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I think he owned some shares in Harvard College.)</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>New Hampshire <em>used</em> to have at Salem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A company we called the White Corpuscles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose duty was at any hour of night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To rush in sheets and fool’s caps where they smelled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A thing the least bit doubtfully perscented</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And give someone the Skipper Ireson’s Ride.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One each of everything as in a show-case.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More than enough land for a specimen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ll say she has, but there there enters in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Something else to protect her from herself.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There quality<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-4" id="noteref-4" epub:type="noteref">4</a> makes up for quantity.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not even New Hampshire farms are much for sale.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The farm I made my home on in the mountains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I had to take by force rather than buy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I caught the owner outdoors by himself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Raking up after winter, and I said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I’m going to put you off this farm: I want it.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Where are you going to put me? In the road?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I’m going to put you on the farm next to it.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Why won’t the farm next to it do for you?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I like this better.” It was really better.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Apples? New Hampshire has them, but unsprayed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With no suspicion in stem-end or blossom-end</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of vitriol or arsenate of lead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And so not good for anything but cider.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her unpruned grapes are flung like lariats</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far up the birches out of reach of man.<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-5" id="noteref-5" epub:type="noteref">5</a></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A state producing precious metals, stones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And⁠—writing; none of these except perhaps</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The precious literature in quantity</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or quality to worry the producer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About disposing of it. Do you know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Considering the market, there are more</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poems produced than any other thing?<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-6" id="noteref-6" epub:type="noteref">6</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>No wonder poets sometimes have to <em>seem</em></span>
				<br/>
				<span>So much more business-like than business men.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their wares are so much harder to get rid of.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She’s one of the two best states in the Union.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Vermont’s the other. And the two have been</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yoke-fellows in the sap-yoke from of old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In many Marches.<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-7" id="noteref-7" epub:type="noteref">7</a> And they lie like wedges,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thick end to thin end and thin end to thick end,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And are a figure of the way the strong</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of mind and strong of arm should fit together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One thick where one is thin and vice versa.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New Hampshire raises the Connecticut</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a trout hatchery near Canada,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But soon divides the river with Vermont.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both are delightful states for their absurdly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Small towns⁠—Lost Nation, Bungey, Muddy Boo,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poplin, Still Corners (so called not because</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The place is silent all day long, nor yet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because it boasts a whisky still⁠—because</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It set out once to be a city and still</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is only corners, cross-roads in a wood).</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I remember one whose name appeared</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Between the pictures on a movie screen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Election<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-8" id="noteref-8" epub:type="noteref">8</a> night once in Franconia,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When everything had gone Republican</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Democrats were sore in need of comfort:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Easton goes Democratic, Wilson 4</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hughes 2. And everybody to the saddest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laughed the loud laugh, the big laugh at the little.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New York (five million) laughs at Manchester,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Manchester (sixty or seventy thousand) laughs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At Littleton (four thousand), Littleton</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laughs at Franconia (seven hundred), and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Franconia laughs, I fear⁠—did laugh that night⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At Easton. What has Easton left to laugh at,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And like the actress exclaim, “Oh my God” at?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s Bungey; and for Bungey there are towns,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whole townships named but without population.<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-9" id="noteref-9" epub:type="noteref">9</a></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Anything I can say about New Hampshire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will serve almost as well about Vermont,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Excepting that they differ in their mountains.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Vermont mountains stretch extended straight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New Hampshire mountains curl up in a coil.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I had been coming to New Hampshire mountains.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And here I am and what am I to say?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here first my theme becomes embarrassing.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Emerson said, “The God who made New Hampshire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Taunted the lofty land with little men.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Another Massachusetts poet said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I go no more to summer in New Hampshire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve given up my summer place in Dublin.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when I asked to know what ailed New Hampshire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She said she couldn’t stand the people in it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The little men (it’s Massachusetts speaking).</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when I asked to know what ailed the people,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She said, “Go read your own books and find out.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I may as well confess myself the author</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of several books against the world in general.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To take them as against a special state</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or even nation’s to restrict my meaning.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’m what is called a sensibilitist,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or otherwise an environmentalist.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I refuse to adapt myself a mite</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To any change from hot to cold, from wet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To dry, from poor to rich, or back again.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I make a virtue of my suffering</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From nearly everything that goes on round me.<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-10" id="noteref-10" epub:type="noteref">10</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>In other words, I know wherever I am,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Being the creature of literature I am,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall not lack for pain to keep me awake.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kit Marlowe taught me how to say my prayers:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Why this is Hell, nor am I out of it.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Samoa, Russia, Ireland I complain of,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No less than England, France and Italy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because I wrote my novels in New Hampshire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is no proof that I aimed them at New Hampshire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When I left Massachusetts years ago</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Between two days, the reason why I sought</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New Hampshire, not Connecticut,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rhode Island, New York, or Vermont was this:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where I was living then, New Hampshire offered</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The nearest boundary to escape across.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I hadn’t an illusion in my hand-bag</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About the people being better there</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than those I left behind. I thought they weren’t.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I thought they couldn’t be. And yet they were.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’d sure had no such friends in Massachusetts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As Hall of Windham, Gay of Atkinson,<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-11" id="noteref-11" epub:type="noteref">11</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bartlett of Raymond (now of Colorado),</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Harris of Derry, and Lynch of Bethlehem.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The glorious bards of Massachusetts seem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To want to make New Hampshire people over.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They taunt the lofty land with little men.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I don’t know what to say about the people.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For art’s sake one could almost wish them worse<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-12" id="noteref-12" epub:type="noteref">12</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rather than better. How are we to write</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Russian novel in America</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As long as life goes so unterribly?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is the pinch from which our only outcry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In literature to date is heard to come.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We get what little misery we can</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of not having cause for misery.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It makes the guild of novel writers sick</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To be expected to be Dostoevskis</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On nothing worse than too much luck and comfort.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is not sorrow, though; it’s just the vapors,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And recognized as such in Russia itself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Under the new régime, and so forbidden.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If well it is with Russia, then feel free</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To say so or be stood against the wall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And shot. It’s Pollyanna now or death.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This, then, is the new freedom we hear tell of;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And very sensible. No state can build</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A literature that shall at once be sound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sad on a foundation of wellbeing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To show the level of intelligence</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among us; it was just a Warren farmer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose horse had pulled him short up in the road</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By me, a stranger. This is what he said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From nothing but embarrassment and want</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of anything more sociable to say:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“You hear those hound-dogs sing on Moosilauke?<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-13" id="noteref-13" epub:type="noteref">13</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Well they remind me of the hue and cry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’ve heard against the Mid-Victorians</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never rightly understood till Bryan</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Retired from politics and joined the chorus.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The matter with the Mid-Victorians</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems to have been a man named John <abbr class="name">L.</abbr> Darwin.”<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-14" id="noteref-14" epub:type="noteref">14</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Go ’long,” I said to him, he to his horse.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I knew a man who failing as a farmer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Burned down his farmhouse for the fire insurance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And spent the proceeds on a telescope<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-15" id="noteref-15" epub:type="noteref">15</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>To satisfy a life-long curiosity</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About our place among the infinities.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how was that for other-worldliness?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If I must choose which I would elevate⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The people or the already lofty mountains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’d elevate the already lofty mountains.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The only fault I find with old New Hampshire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is that her mountains aren’t quite high enough.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was not always so; I’ve come to be so.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How, to my sorrow, how have I attained</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A height from which to look down critical</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On mountains? What has given me assurance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To say what height becomes New Hampshire mountains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or any mountains? Can it be some strength</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I feel as of an earthquake in my back</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To heave them higher to the morning star?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can it be foreign travel in the Alps?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or having seen and credited a moment</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The solid moulding of vast peaks of cloud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Behind the pitiful reality</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Lincoln, Lafayette and Liberty?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or some such sense as says how high shall jet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fountain in proportion to the basin?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No, none of these has raised me to my throne</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of intellectual dissatisfaction,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the sad accident of having seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our actual mountains given in a map</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of early times as twice the height they are⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ten thousand feet instead of only five⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which shows how sad an accident may be.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Five thousand is no longer high enough.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whereas I never had a good idea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About improving people in the world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here I am over-fertile in suggestion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cannot rest from planning day or night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How high I’d thrust the peaks in summer snow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To tap the upper sky and draw a flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of frosty night air on the vale below</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down from the stars to freeze the dew as starry.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The more the sensibilitist I am</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The more I seem to want my mountains wild;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The way the wiry gang-boss liked the log-jam.<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-16" id="noteref-16" epub:type="noteref">16</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>After he’d picked the lock and got it started,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He dodged a log that lifted like an arm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the sky to break his back for him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then came in dancing, skipping, with his life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the roar and chaos, and the words</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We saw him say along the zigzag journey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were doubtless as the words we heard him say</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On coming nearer: “Wasn’t she an <em>i</em>-deal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Son-of-a-bitch? You bet she was an <em>i</em>-deal.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For all her mountains fall a little short,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her people not quite short enough for Art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She’s still New Hampshire, a most restful state.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lately in converse with a New York alec</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About the new school of the pseudo-phallic,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I found myself in a close corner where</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I had to make an almost funny choice.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Choose you which you will be⁠—a prude, or puke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mewling and puking in the public arms.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Me for the hills where I don’t have to choose.”<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-17" id="noteref-17" epub:type="noteref">17</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>“But if you had to choose, which would you be?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wouldn’t be a prude afraid of nature.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know a man who took a double axe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And went alone against a grove of trees;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his heart failing him, he dropped the axe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ran for shelter quoting Matthew Arnold:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Nature is cruel, man is sick of blood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s been enough shed without shedding mine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember Birnam Wood! The wood’s in flux!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He had a special terror of the flux</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That showed itself in dendrophobia.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The only decent tree had been to mill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And educated into boards, he said.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knew too well for any earthly use</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The line where man leaves off and nature starts,<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-18" id="noteref-18" epub:type="noteref">18</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never over-stepped it save in dreams.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He stood on the safe side of the line talking;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which is sheer Matthew Arnoldism,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cult of one who owned himself “a foiled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Circuitous wanderer,” and “took dejectedly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His seat upon the intellectual throne.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Agreed in frowning on these improvised</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Altars the woods are full of nowadays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Again as in the days when Ahaz sinned</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By worship under green trees in the open.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scarcely a mile but that I come on one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A black-cheeked stone and stick of rain-washed charcoal.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even to say the groves were God’s first temples</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Comes too near to Ahaz’ sin for safety.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nothing not built with hands of course is sacred.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But here is not a question of what’s sacred;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rather of what to face or run away from.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’d hate to be a runaway from nature.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And neither would I choose to be a puke</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who cares not what he does in company,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, when he can’t do anything, falls back</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On words, and tries his worst to make words speak</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Louder than actions, and sometimes achieves it.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seems a narrow choice the age insists on.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How about being a good Greek, for instance?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That course, they tell me, isn’t offered this year.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Come, but this isn’t choosing⁠—puke or prude?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Well, if I have to choose one or the other,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I choose to be a plain New Hampshire farmer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With an income in cash of say a thousand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(From say a publisher in New York City).</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s restful to arrive at a decision,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And restful just to think about New Hampshire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At present I am living in Vermont.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<section id="notes" epub:type="part">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Notes</h2>
			<article id="a-star-in-a-stone-boat" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3>A Star in a Stone-Boat</h3>
					<p epub:type="dedication">(For Lincoln MacVeagh)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Never tell me that not one star of all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That slip from heaven at night and softly fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has been picked up with stones to build a wall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some laborer found one faded and stone cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span id="a-star-in-a-stone-boat-line-5">And saving that its weight suggested gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tugged it from his first too certain hold,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He noticed nothing in it to remark.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was not used to handling stars thrown dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lifeless from an interrupted arc.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He did not recognize in that smooth coal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The one thing palpable besides the soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To penetrate the air in which we roll.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He did not see how like a flying thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It brooded ant-eggs, and had one large wing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One not so large for flying in a ring,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And a long Bird of Paradise’s tail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Though these when not in use to fly and trail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It drew back in its body like a snail);</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nor know that he might move it from the spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The harm was done; from having been star-shot</span>
					<br/>
					<span id="a-star-in-a-stone-boat-line-21">The very nature of the soil was hot</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And burning to yield flowers instead of grain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flowers fanned and not put out by all the rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poured on them by his prayers prayed in vain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He moved it roughly with an iron bar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He loaded an old stone-boat with the star</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And not, as you might think, a flying car,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such as even poets would admit perforce</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More practical than Pegasus the horse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If it could put a star back in its course.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He dragged it through the ploughed ground at a pace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But faintly reminiscent of the race</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of jostling rock in interstellar space.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It went for building stone, and I, as though</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Commanded in a dream, forever go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To right the wrong that this should have been so.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet ask where else it could have gone as well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I do not know⁠—I cannot stop to tell:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He might have left it lying where it fell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From following walls I never lift my eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except at night to places in the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where showers of charted meteors let fly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some may know what they seek in school and church,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And why they seek it there; for what I search</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must go measuring stone walls, perch on perch;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sure that though not a star of death and birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So not to be compared, perhaps, in worth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To such resorts of life as Mars and Earth,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Though not, I say, a star of death and sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It yet has poles, and only needs a spin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To show its worldly nature and begin</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To chafe and shuffle in my calloused palm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And run off in strange tangents with my arm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As fish do with the line in first alarm.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such as it is, it promises the prize</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the one world complete in any size</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I am like to compass, fool or wise.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-census-taker" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Census-Taker</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I came an errand one cloud-blowing evening</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a slab-built, black-paper-covered house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of one room and one window and one door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The only dwelling in a waste cut over</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hundred square miles round it in the mountains:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that not dwelt in now by men or women</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(It never had been dwelt in, though, by women,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So what is this I make a sorrow of?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I came as census-taker to the waste</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To count the people in it and found none,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None in the hundred miles, none in the house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I came last with some hope, but not much</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After hours’ overlooking from the cliffs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An emptiness flayed to the very stone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I found no people that dared show themselves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None not in hiding from the outward eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The time was autumn, but how anyone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could tell the time of year when every tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That could have dropped a leaf was down itself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nothing but the stump of it was left</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now bringing out its rings in sugar of pitch;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every tree up stood a rotting trunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without a single leaf to spend on autumn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or branch to whistle after what was spent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps the wind the more without the help</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of breathing trees said something of the time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of year or day the way it swung a door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever off the latch, as if rude men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passed in and slammed it shut each one behind him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the next one to open for himself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span id="the-census-taker-line-31">I counted nine I had no right to count</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(But this was dreamy unofficial counting)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before I made the tenth across the threshold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where was my supper? Where was anyone’s?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No lamp was lit. Nothing was on the table.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stove was cold⁠—the stove was off the chimney⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And down by one side where it lacked a leg.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people that had loudly passed the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were people to the ear but not the eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They were not on the table with their elbows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They were not sleeping in the shelves of bunks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw no men there and no bones of men there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I armed myself against such bones as might be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the pitch-blackened stub of an axe-handle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I picked up off the straw-dust covered floor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not bones, but the ill-fitted window rattled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The door was still because I held it shut</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While I thought what to do that could be done⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the house⁠—about the people not there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This house in one year fallen to decay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Filled me with no less sorrow than the houses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fallen to ruin in ten thousand years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Asia wedges Africa from Europe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing was left to do that I could see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless to find that there was no one there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And declare to the cliffs too far for echo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The place is desert and let whoso lurks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In silence, if in this he is aggrieved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Break silence now or be forever silent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let him say why it should not be declared so.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The melancholy of having to count souls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where they grow fewer and fewer every year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is extreme where they shrink to none at all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It must be I want life to go on living.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-star-splitter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Star-Splitter</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“You know Orion always comes up sideways.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throwing a leg up over our fence of mountains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rising on his hands, he looks in on me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Busy outdoors by lantern-light with something</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I should have done by daylight, and indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the ground is frozen, I should have done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before it froze, and a gust flings a handful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of waste leaves at my smoky lantern chimney</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make fun of my way of doing things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or else fun of Orion’s having caught me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has a man, I should like to ask, no rights</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These forces are obliged to pay respect to?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Brad McLaughlin mingled reckless talk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of heavenly stars with hugger-mugger farming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till having failed at hugger-mugger farming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He burned his house down for the fire insurance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spent the proceeds on a telescope</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To satisfy a life-long curiosity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About our place among the infinities.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“What do you want with one of those blame things?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I asked him well beforehand. “Don’t you get one!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Don’t call it blamed; there isn’t anything</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More blameless in the sense of being less</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A weapon in our human fight,” he said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ll have one if I sell my farm to buy it.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span id="the-star-splitter-line-26">There where he moved the rocks to plow the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And plowed between the rocks he couldn’t move</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Few farms changed hands; so rather than spend years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trying to sell his farm and then not selling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He burned his house down for the fire insurance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bought the telescope with what it came to.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had been heard to say by several:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The best thing that we’re put here for’s to see;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The strongest thing that’s given us to see with’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A telescope. Someone in every town</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seems to me owes it to the town to keep one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Littleton it may as well be me.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After such loose talk it was no surprise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he did what he did and burned his house down.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mean laughter went about the town that day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To let him know we weren’t the least imposed on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he could wait⁠—we’d see to him to-morrow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the first thing next morning we reflected</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If one by one we counted people out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the least sin, it wouldn’t take us long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get so we had no one left to live with.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For to be social is to be forgiving.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our thief, the one who does our stealing from us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We don’t cut off from coming to church suppers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what we miss we go to him and ask for.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He promptly gives it back, that is if still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Uneaten, unworn out, or undisposed of.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It wouldn’t do to be too hard on Brad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About his telescope. Beyond the age</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of being given one’s gift for Christmas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had to take the best way he knew how</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To find himself in one. Well, all we said was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He took a strange thing to be roguish over.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some sympathy was wasted on the house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A good old-timer dating back along;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a house isn’t sentient; the house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Didn’t feel anything. And if it did,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why not regard it as a sacrifice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And an old-fashioned sacrifice by fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Instead of a new-fashioned one at auction?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Out of a house and so out of a farm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At one stroke (of a match), Brad had to turn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To earn a living on the Concord railroad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As under-ticket-agent at a station</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where his job, when he wasn’t selling tickets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was setting out up track and down, not plants</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As on a farm, but planets, evening stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That varied in their hue from red to green.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He got a good glass for six hundred dollars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His new job gave him leisure for star-gazing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Often he bid me come and have a look</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up the brass barrel, velvet black inside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At a star quaking in the other end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I recollect a night of broken clouds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And underfoot snow melted down to ice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And melting further in the wind to mud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bradford and I had out the telescope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We spread our two legs as we spread its three,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pointed our thoughts the way we pointed it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And standing at our leisure till the day broke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said some of the best things we ever said.<a href="../text/endnotes.xhtml#note-19" id="noteref-19" epub:type="noteref">19</a></span>
					<br/>
					<span>That telescope was christened the Star-splitter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because it didn’t do a thing but split</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A star in two or three the way you split</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A globule of quicksilver in your hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With one stroke of your finger in the middle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s a star-splitter if there ever was one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ought to do some good if splitting stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Sa thing to be compared with splitting wood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We’ve looked and looked, but after all where are we?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do we know any better where we are,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And how it stands between the night to-night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a man with a smoky lantern chimney?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How different from the way it ever stood?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="maple" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Maple</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Her teacher’s certainty it must be Mabel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made Maple first take notice of her name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She asked her father and he told her “Maple⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Maple is right.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">“But teacher told the school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s no such name.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">“Teachers don’t know as much</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As fathers about children, you tell teacher.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You tell her that it’s M-A-P-L-E.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You ask her if she knows a maple tree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, you were named after a maple tree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your mother named you. You and she just saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each other in passing in the room upstairs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One coming this way into life, and one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Going the other out of life⁠—you know?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So you can’t have much recollection of her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She had been having a long look at you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She put her finger in your cheek so hard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It must have made your dimple there, and said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Maple.’ I said it too: ‘Yes, for her name.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She nodded. So we’re sure there’s no mistake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t know what she wanted it to mean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it seems like some word she left to bid you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be a good girl⁠—be like a maple tree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How like a maple tree’s for us to guess.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or for a little girl to guess sometime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not now⁠—at least I shouldn’t try too hard now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By and by I will tell you all I know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the different trees, and something, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About your mother that perhaps may help.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dangerous self-arousing words to sow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Luckily all she wanted of her name then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was to rebuke her teacher with it next day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give the teacher a scare as from her father.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Anything further had been wasted on her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or so he tried to think to avoid blame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She would forget it. She all but forgot it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What he sowed with her slept so long a sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And came so near death in the dark of years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That when it woke and came to life again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flower was different from the parent seed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It came back vaguely at the glass one day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As she stood saying her name over aloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Striking it gently across her lowered eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make it go well with the way she looked.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What was it about her name? Its strangeness lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In having too much meaning. Other names,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Lesley, Carol, Irma, Marjorie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Signified nothing. Rose could have a meaning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But hadn’t as it went. (She knew a Rose.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This difference from other names it was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made people notice it⁠—and notice her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(They either noticed it, or got it wrong.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her problem was to find out what it asked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In dress or manner of the girl who bore it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If she could form some notion of her mother⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What she had thought was lovely, and what good.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This was her mother’s childhood home;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The house one story high in front, three stories</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the end it presented to the road.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The arrangement made a pleasant sunny cellar.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her mother’s bedroom was her father’s still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where she could watch her mother’s picture fading.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once she found for a bookmark in the Bible</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A maple leaf she thought must have been laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In wait for her there. She read every word</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the two pages it was pressed between</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if it was her mother speaking to her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But forgot to put the leaf back in closing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lost the place never to read again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was sure, though, there had been nothing in it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So she looked for herself, as everyone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looks for himself, more or less outwardly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And her self-seeking, fitful though it was,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May still have been what led her on to read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And think a little, and get some city schooling.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She learned shorthand, whatever shorthand may</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have had to do with it⁠—she sometimes wondered.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, till she found herself in a strange place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the name Maple to have brought her to,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Taking dictation on a paper pad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the pauses when she raised her eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Watching out of a nineteenth story window</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An airship laboring with unship-like motion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a vague all-disturbing roar above the river</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond the highest city built with hands.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Someone was saying in such natural tones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She almost wrote the words down on her knee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Do you know you remind me of a tree⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A maple tree?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">“Because my name is Maple?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Isn’t it Mabel? I thought it was Mabel.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“No doubt you’ve heard the office call me Mabel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have to let them call me what they like.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They were both stirred that he should have divined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without the name her personal mystery.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It made it seem as if there must be something</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She must have missed herself. So they were married,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And took the fancy home with them to live by.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They went on pilgrimage once to her father’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The house one story high in front, three stories</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the side it presented to the road)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see if there was not some special tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She might have overlooked. They could find none,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not so much as a single tree for shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let alone grove of trees for sugar orchard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She told him of the bookmark maple leaf</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the big Bible, and all she remembered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the place marked with it⁠—“Wave offering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something about wave offering, it said.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You’ve never asked your father outright, have you?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I have, and been put off sometime, I think.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(This was her faded memory of the way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once long ago her father had put himself off.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Because no telling but it may have been</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something between your father and your mother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not meant for us at all.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">“Not meant for me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where would the fairness be in giving me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A name to carry for life, and never know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The secret of?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">“And then it may have been</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something a father couldn’t tell a daughter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As well as could a mother. And again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It may have been their one lapse into fancy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twould be too bad to make him sorry for</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By bringing it up to him when he was too old.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your father feels us round him with our questing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And holds us off unnecessarily,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if he didn’t know what little thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might lead us on to a discovery.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was as personal as he could be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the way he saw it was with you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To say your mother, had she lived, would be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As far again as from being born to bearing.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Just one look more with what you say in mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I give up”; which last look came to nothing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, though they now gave up the search forever,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They clung to what one had seen in the other</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By inspiration. It proved there was something.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They kept their thoughts away from when the maples</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood uniform in buckets, and the steam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sap and snow rolled off the sugar house.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When they made her related to the maples,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was the tree the autumn fire ran through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swept of leathern leaves, but left the bark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unscorched, unblackened, even, by any smoke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They always took their holidays in autumn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once they came on a maple in a glade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Standing alone with smooth arms lifted up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every leaf of foliage she’d worn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laid scarlet and pale pink about her feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But its age kept them from considering this one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twenty-five years ago at Maple’s naming</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It hardly could have been a two-leaved seedling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The next cow might have licked up out at pasture.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could it have been another maple like it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They hovered for a moment near discovery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Figurative enough to see the symbol,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But lacking faith in anything to mean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The same at different times to different people.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps a filial diffidence partly kept them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From thinking it could be a thing so bridal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And anyway it came too late for Maple.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She used her hands to cover up her eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“We would not see the secret if we could now:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We are not looking for it any more.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thus had a name with meaning, given in death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made a girl’s marriage, and ruled in her life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No matter that the meaning was not clear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A name with meaning could bring up a child,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Taking the child out of the parents’ hands.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Better a meaningless name, I should say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As leaving more to nature and happy chance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Name children some names and see what you do.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-axe-helve" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Axe-Helve</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I’ve known ere now an interfering branch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of alder catch my lifted axe behind me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that was in the woods, to hold my hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From striking at another alder’s roots,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that was, as I say, an alder branch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This was a man, Baptiste, who stole one day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind me on the snow in my own yard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I was working at the chopping-block,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cutting nothing not cut down already.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He caught my axe expertly on the rise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all my strength put forth was in his favor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held it a moment where it was, to calm me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then took it from me⁠—and I let him take it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I didn’t know him well enough to know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What it was all about. There might be something</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had in mind to say to a bad neighbor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He might prefer to say to him disarmed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all he had to tell me in French-English</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was what he thought of⁠—not me, but my axe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me only as I took my axe to heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was the bad axe-helve some one had sold me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Made on machine,” he said, ploughing the grain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a thick thumbnail to show how it ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across the handle’s long drawn serpentine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the two strokes across a dollar sign.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You give her one good crack, she’s snap raght off.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Den where’s your hax-ead flying t’rough de hair?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Admitted; and yet, what was that to him?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Come on my house and I put you one in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What’s las’ awhile⁠—good hick’ry what’s grow crooked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>De second growt’ I cut myself⁠—tough, tough!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Something to sell? That wasn’t how it sounded.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Den when you say you come? It’s cost you nothing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-naght?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">As well to-night as any night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beyond an over-warmth of kitchen stove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My welcome differed from no other welcome.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Baptiste knew best why I was where I was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So long as he would leave enough unsaid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shouldn’t mind his being overjoyed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(If overjoyed he was) at having got me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I must judge if what he knew about an axe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That not everybody else knew was to count</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For nothing in the measure of a neighbor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hard if, though cast away for life with Yankees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Frenchman couldn’t get his human rating!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Baptiste came in and rocked a chair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That had as many motions as the world:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One back and forward, in and out of shadow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That got her nowhere; one more gradual,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sideways, that would have run her on the stove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In time, had she not realized her danger</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And caught herself up bodily, chair and all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And set herself back where she started from.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“She ain’t spick too much Henglish⁠—dat’s too bad.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I was afraid, in brightening first on me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then on Baptiste, as if she understood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What passed between us, she was only feigning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Baptiste was anxious for her; but no more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than for himself, so placed he couldn’t hope</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To keep his bargain of the morning with me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In time to keep me from suspecting him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of really never having meant to keep it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Needlessly soon he had his axe-helves out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A quiverful to choose from, since he wished me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have the best he had, or had to spare⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not for me to ask which, when what he took</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had beauties he had to point me out at length</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To insure their not being wasted on me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He liked to have it slender as a whipstock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Free from the least knot, equal to the strain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of bending like a sword across the knee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He showed me that the lines of a good helve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were native to the grain before the knife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Expressed them, and its curves were no false curves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put on it from without. And there its strength lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the hard work. He chafed its long white body</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From end to end with his rough hand shut round it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He tried it at the eye-hole in the axe-head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Hahn, hahn,” he mused, “don’t need much taking down.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Baptiste knew how to make a short job long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For love of it, and yet not waste time either.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Do you know, what we talked about was knowledge?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Baptiste on his defence about the children</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He kept from school, or did his best to keep⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whatever school and children and our doubts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of laid-on education had to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the curves of his axe-helves and his having</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Used these unscrupulously to bring me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see for once the inside of his house.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was I desired in friendship, partly as some one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To leave it to, whether the right to hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such doubts of education should depend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the education of those who held them?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But now he brushed the shavings from his knee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stood the axe there on its horse’s hoof,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Erect, but not without its waves, as when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The snake stood up for evil in the Garden⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Top-heavy with a heaviness his short,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thick hand made light of, steel-blue chin drawn down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in a little⁠—a French touch in that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Baptiste drew back and squinted at it, pleased;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“See how she’s cock her head!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-grindstone" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Grindstone</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Having a wheel and four legs of its own</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has never availed the cumbersome grindstone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get it anywhere that I can see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These hands have helped it go, and even race;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not all the motion, though, they ever lent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not all the miles it may have thought it went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have got it one step from the starting place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It stands beside the same old apple tree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shadow of the apple tree is thin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon it now, its feet are fast in snow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All other farm machinery’s gone in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And some of it on no more legs and wheel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than the grindstone can boast to stand or go.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I’m thinking chiefly of the wheelbarrow.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For months it hasn’t known the taste of steel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Washed down with rusty water in a tin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But standing outdoors hungry, in the cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except in towns at night, is not a sin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, anyway, its standing in the yard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under a ruinous live apple tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has nothing any more to do with me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except that I remember how of old</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One summer day, all day I drove it hard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And someone mounted on it rode it hard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he and I between us ground a blade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I gave it the preliminary spin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And poured on water (tears it might have been);</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when it almost gayly jumped and flowed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Father-Time-like man got on and rode,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Armed with a scythe and spectacles that glowed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He turned on will-power to increase the load</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And slow me down⁠—and I abruptly slowed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like coming to a sudden railroad station.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I changed from hand to hand in desperation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wondered what machine of ages gone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This represented an improvement on.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all I knew it may have sharpened spears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And arrowheads itself. Much use for years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had gradually worn it an oblate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spheroid that kicked and struggled in its gait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Appearing to return me hate for hate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(But I forgive it now as easily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As any other boyhood enemy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose pride has failed to get him anywhere).</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wondered who it was the man thought ground⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The one who held the wheel back or the one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who gave his life to keep it going round?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wondered if he really thought it fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For him to have the say when we were done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such were the bitter thoughts to which I turned.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not for myself was I so much concerned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh no!⁠—although, of course, I could have found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A better way to pass the afternoon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than grinding discord out of a grindstone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beating insects at their gritty tune.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor was I for the man so much concerned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once when the grindstone almost jumped its bearing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It looked as if he might be badly thrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wounded on his blade. So far from caring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I laughed inside, and only cranked the faster,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(It ran as if it wasn’t greased but glued);</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d welcome any moderate disaster</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That might be calculated to postpone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What evidently nothing could conclude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thing that made me more and more afraid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was that we’d ground it sharp and hadn’t known,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now were only wasting precious blade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when he raised it dripping once and tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The creepy edge of it with wary touch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And viewed it over his glasses funny-eyed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only disinterestedly to decide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It needed a turn more, I could have cried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wasn’t there danger of a turn too much?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mightn’t we make it worse instead of better?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was for leaving something to the whetter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What if it wasn’t all it should be? I’d</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be satisfied if he’d be satisfied.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="pauls-wife" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Paul’s Wife</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To drive Paul out of any lumber camp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All that was needed was to say to him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“How is the wife, Paul?”⁠—and he’d disappear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some said it was because he had no wife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hated to be twitted on the subject.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others because he’d come within a day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or so of having one, and then been jilted.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others because he’d had one once, a good one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who’d run away with some one else and left him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And others still because he had one now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He only had to be reminded of⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was all duty to her in a minute:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had to run right off to look her up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if to say, “That’s so, how is my wife?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hope she isn’t getting into mischief.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No one was anxious to get rid of Paul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’d been the hero of the mountain camps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ever since, just to show them, he had slipped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bark of a whole tamarack off whole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As clean as boys do off a willow twig</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make a willow whistle on a Sunday</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In April by subsiding meadow brooks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They seemed to ask him just to see him go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“How is the wife, Paul?” and he always went.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He never stopped to murder anyone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who asked the question. He just disappeared⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nobody knew in what direction,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although it wasn’t usually long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before they heard of him in some new camp,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The same Paul at the same old feats of logging.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The question everywhere was why should Paul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Object to being asked a civil question⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man you could say almost anything to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Short of a fighting word. You have the answers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there was one more not so fair to Paul:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Paul had married a wife not his equal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul was ashamed of her. To match a hero,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She would have had to be a heroine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Instead of which she was some half-breed squaw.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if the story Murphy told was true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wasn’t anything to be ashamed of.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You know Paul could do wonders. Everyone’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heard how he thrashed the horses on a load</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That wouldn’t budge until they simply stretched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their rawhide harness from the load to camp.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul told the boss the load would be all right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The sun will bring your load in”⁠—and it did⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By shrinking the rawhide to natural length.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s what is called a stretcher. But I guess</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The one about his jumping so’s to land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With both his feet at once against the ceiling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then land safely right side up again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back on the floor, is fact or pretty near fact.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well this is such a yarn. Paul sawed his wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of a white-pine log. Murphy was there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, as you might say, saw the lady born.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul worked at anything in lumbering.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’d been hard at it taking boards away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For⁠—I forget⁠—the last ambitious sawyer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To want to find out if he couldn’t pile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lumber on Paul till Paul begged for mercy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’d sliced the first slab off a big butt log,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sawyer had slammed the carriage back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To slam end on again against the saw teeth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To judge them by the way they caught themselves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When they saw what had happened to the log,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They must have had a guilty expectation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something was going to go with their slambanging.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something had left a broad black streak of grease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the new wood the whole length of the log</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except, perhaps, a foot at either end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when Paul put his finger in the grease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It wasn’t grease at all, but a long slot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The log was hollow. They were sawing pine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“First time I ever saw a hollow pine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That comes of having Paul around the place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take it to hell for me,” the sawyer said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Everyone had to have a look at it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tell Paul what he ought to do about it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(They treated it as his.) “You take a jack-knife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spread the opening, and you’ve got a dug-out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All dug to go a-fishing in.” To Paul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hollow looked too sound and clean and empty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ever to have housed birds or beasts or bees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was no entrance for them to get in by.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It looked to him like some new kind of hollow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thought he’d <em>better</em> take his jack-knife to.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So after work that evening he came back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let enough light into it by cutting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see if it was empty. He made out in there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A slender length of pith, or was it pith?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It might have been the skin a snake had cast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And left stood up on end inside the tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hundred years the tree must have been growing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More cutting and he had this in both hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, looking from it to the pond near by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul wondered how it would respond to water.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not a breeze stirred, but just the breath of air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He made in walking slowly to the beach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blew it once off his hands and almost broke it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He laid it at the edge where it could drink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the first drink it rustled and grew limp.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the next drink it grew invisible.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul dragged the shallows for it with his fingers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thought it must have melted. It was gone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then beyond the open water, dim with midges,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the log drive lay pressed against the boom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It slowly rose a person, rose a girl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her wet hair heavy on her like a helmet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, leaning on a log looked back at Paul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that made Paul in turn look back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see if it was anyone behind him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That she was looking at instead of him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Murphy had been there watching all the time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But from a shed where neither of them could see him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was a moment of suspense in birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the girl seemed too water-logged to live,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before she caught her first breath with a gasp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And laughed. Then she climbed slowly to her feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And walked off talking to herself or Paul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across the logs like backs of alligators,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul taking after her around the pond.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Next evening Murphy and some other fellows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Got drunk, and tracked the pair up Catamount,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the bare top of which there is a view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To other hills across a kettle valley.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there, well after dark, let Murphy tell it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They saw Paul and his creature keeping house.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was the only glimpse that anyone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has had of Paul and her since Murphy saw them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Falling in love across the twilight mill-pond.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More than a mile across the wilderness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They sat together half-way up a cliff</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a small niche let into it, the girl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brightly, as if a star played on the place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul darkly, like her shadow. All the light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was from the girl herself, though, not from a star,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As was apparent from what happened next.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All those great ruffians put their throats together,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let out a loud yell, and threw a bottle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a brute tribute of respect to beauty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of course the bottle fell short by a mile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the shout reached the girl and put her light out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She went out like a firefly, and that was all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So there were witnesses that Paul was married,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And not to anyone to be ashamed of.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Everyone had been wrong in judging Paul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Murphy told me Paul put on all those airs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About his wife to keep her to himself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Paul was what’s called a terrible possessor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Owning a wife with him meant owning her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wasn’t anybody else’s business,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Either to praise her, or so much as name her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he’d thank people not to think of her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Murphy’s idea was that a man like Paul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wouldn’t be spoken to about a wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In any way the world knew how to speak.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="wild-grapes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Wild Grapes</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What tree may not the fig be gathered from?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grape may not be gathered from the birch?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s all you know the grape, or know the birch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a girl gathered from the birch myself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Equally with my weight in grapes, one autumn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ought to know what tree the grape is fruit of.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was born, I suppose, like anyone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And grew to be a little boyish girl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My brother could not always leave at home.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that beginning was wiped out in fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The day I swung suspended with the grapes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And was come after like Eurydice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And brought down safely from the upper regions;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the life I live now’s an extra life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can waste as I please on whom I please.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So if you see me celebrate two birthdays,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give myself out as two different ages,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One of them five years younger than I look⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One day my brother led me to a glade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where a white birch he knew of stood alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wearing a thin head-dress of pointed leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heavy on her heavy hair behind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against her neck, an ornament of grapes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grapes, I knew grapes from having seen them last year.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One bunch of them, and there began to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bunches all round me growing in white birches,</span>
					<br/>
					<span id="wild-grapes-line-27">The way they grew round Lief the Lucky’s German;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mostly as much beyond my lifted hands, though,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the moon used to seem when I was younger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And only freely to be had for climbing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My brother did the climbing; and at first</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Threw me down grapes to miss and scatter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And have to hunt for in sweet fern and hardhack;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which gave him some time to himself to eat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not so much, perhaps, as a boy needed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So then, to make me wholly self-supporting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He climbed still higher and bent the tree to earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And put it in my hands to pick my own grapes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Here, take a tree-top, I’ll get down another.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hold on with all your might when I let go.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I said I had the tree. It wasn’t true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The opposite was true. The tree had me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minute it was left with me alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It caught me up as if I were the fish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it the fishpole. So I was translated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To loud cries from my brother of “Let go!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t you know anything, you girl? Let go!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I, with something of the baby grip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Acquired ancestrally in just such trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When wilder mothers than our wildest now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hung babies out on branches by the hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To dry or wash or tan, I don’t know which</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(You’ll have to ask an evolutionist)⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I held on uncomplainingly for life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My brother tried to make me laugh to help me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What are you doing up there in those grapes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t be afraid. A few of them won’t hurt you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mean, they won’t pick you if you don’t them.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Much danger of my picking anything!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By that time I was pretty well reduced</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a philosophy of hang-and-let-hang.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Now you know how it feels,” my brother said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“To be a bunch of fox-grapes, as they call them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That when it thinks it has escaped the fox</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By growing where it shouldn’t⁠—on a birch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where a fox wouldn’t think to look for it⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if he looked and found it, couldn’t reach it⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just then come you and I to gather it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only you have the advantage of the grapes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In one way: you have one more stem to cling by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And promise more resistance to the picker.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One by one I lost off my hat and shoes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still I clung. I let my head fall back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shut my eyes against the sun, my ears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against my brother’s nonsense; “Drop,” he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ll catch you in my arms. It isn’t far.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Stated in lengths of him it might not be.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Drop or I’ll shake the tree and shake you down.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grim silence on my part as I sank lower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My small wrists stretching till they showed the banjo strings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Why, if she isn’t serious about it!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hold tight awhile till I think what to do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll bend the tree down and let you down by it.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t know much about the letting down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But once I felt ground with my stocking feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the world came revolving back to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know I looked long at my curled-up fingers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before I straightened them and brushed the bark off.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My brother said: “Don’t you weigh anything?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Try to weigh something next time, so you won’t</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be run off with by birch trees into space.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It wasn’t my not weighing anything</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So much as my not knowing anything⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My brother had been nearer right before.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had not taken the first step in knowledge;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had not learned to let go with the hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As still I have not learned to with the heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And have no wish to with the heart⁠—nor need,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I can see. The mind⁠—is not the heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I may yet live, as I know others live,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wish in vain to let go with the mind⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of cares, at night, to sleep; but nothing tells me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I need learn to let go with the heart.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="place-for-a-third" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Place for a Third</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Nothing to say to all those marriages!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She had made three herself to three of his.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The score was even for them, three to three.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But come to die she found she cared so much:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She thought of children in a burial row;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three children in a burial row were sad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One man’s three women in a burial row</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somehow made her impatient with the man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so she said to Laban, “You have done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A good deal right; don’t do the last thing wrong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t make me lie with those two other women.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Laban said, No, he would not make her lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With anyone but that she had a mind to,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If that was how she felt, of course, he said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She went her way. But Laban having caught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This glimpse of lingering person in Eliza,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And anxious to make all he could of it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With something he remembered in himself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tried to think how he could exceed his promise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give good measure to the dead, though thankless.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If that was how she felt, he kept repeating.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His first thought under pressure was a grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a new boughten grave plot by herself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under he didn’t care how great a stone:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’d sell a yoke of steers to pay for it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And weren’t there special cemetery flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, once grief sets to growing, grief may rest:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flowers will go on with grief awhile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no one seem neglecting or neglected?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A prudent grief will not despise such aids.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thought of evergreen and everlasting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then he had a thought worth many of these.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somewhere must be the grave of the young boy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who married her for playmate more than helpmate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sometimes laughed at what it was between them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How would she like to sleep her last with him?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where was his grave? Did Laban know his name?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He found the grave a town or two away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The headstone cut with <i>John, Beloved Husband</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beside it room reserved, the say a sister’s,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A never-married sister’s of that husband,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whether Eliza would be welcome there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dead was bound to silence: ask the sister.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Laban saw the sister, and, saying nothing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of where Eliza wanted <em>not</em> to lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who had thought to lay her with her first love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Begged simply for the grave. The sister’s face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell all in wrinkles of responsibility.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wanted to do right. She’d have to think.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laban was old and poor, yet seemed to care;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And she was old and poor⁠—but she cared, too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They sat. She cast one dull, old look at him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then turned him out to go on other errands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She said he might attend to in the village,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While she made up her mind how much she cared⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And how much Laban cared⁠—and why he cared,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(She made shrewd eyes to see where he came in.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’d looked Eliza up her second time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A widow at her second husband’s grave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And offered her a home to rest awhile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before she went the poor man’s widow’s way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Housekeeping for the next man out of wedlock.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She and Eliza had been friends through all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who was she to judge marriage in a world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose Bible’s so confused in marriage counsel?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sister had not come across this Laban;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A decent product of life’s ironing-out;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She must not keep him waiting. Time would press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between the death day and the funeral day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So when she saw him coming in the street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She hurried her decision to be ready</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To meet him with his answer at the door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laban had known about what it would be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the way she had set her poor old mouth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To do, as she had put it, what was right.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She gave it through the screen door closed between them:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“No, not with John. There wouldn’t be no sense.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eliza’s had too many other men.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Laban was forced to fall back on his plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To buy Eliza a plot to lie alone in:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which gives him for himself a choice of lots</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When his time comes to die and settle down.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-witches" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Witches</h3>
				<section id="the-witch-of-coos" epub:type="part">
					<header>
						<h4>
							<span epub:type="z3998:roman">I</span>
							<span epub:type="subtitle">The Witch of Coös</span>
						</h4>
						<p epub:type="bridgehead">Circa 1922.</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>I staid the night for shelter at a farm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Behind the mountain, with a mother and son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two old-believers. They did all the talking.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Mother.</i> Folks think a witch who has familiar spirits</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She could call up to pass a winter evening,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But won’t, should be burned at the stake or something.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Summoning spirits isn’t “Button, button,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who’s got the button,” I would have them know.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Son.</i> Mother can make a common table rear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And kick with two legs like an army mule.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Mother.</i> And when I’ve done it, what good have I done?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rather than tip a table for you, let me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tell you what Ralle the Sioux Control once told me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He said the dead had souls, but when I asked him</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How could that be⁠—I thought the dead were souls,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He broke my trance. Don’t that make you suspicious</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That there’s something the dead are keeping back?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yes, there’s something the dead are keeping back.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Son.</i> You wouldn’t want to tell him what we have</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Up attic, mother?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Mother.</i> Bones⁠—a skeleton.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Son.</i> But the headboard of mother’s bed is pushed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Against the attic door: the door is nailed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It’s harmless. Mother hears it in the night</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Halting perplexed behind the barrier</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of door and headboard. Where it wants to get</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is back into the cellar where it came from.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Mother.</i> We’ll never let them, will we, son? We’ll never!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Son.</i> It left the cellar forty years ago</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And carried itself like a pile of dishes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Up one flight from the cellar to the kitchen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Another from the kitchen to the bedroom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Another from the bedroom to the attic,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Right past both father and mother, and neither stopped it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Father had gone upstairs; mother was downstairs.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I was a baby: I don’t know where I was.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Mother.</i> The only fault my husband found with me⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I went to sleep before I went to bed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Especially in winter when the bed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Might just as well be ice and the clothes snow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The night the bones came up the cellar-stairs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Toffile had gone to bed alone and left me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But left an open door to cool the room off</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So as to sort of turn me out of it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I was just coming to myself enough</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To wonder where the cold was coming from,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When I heard Toffile upstairs in the bedroom</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And thought I heard him downstairs in the cellar.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The board we had laid down to walk dry-shod on</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When there was water in the cellar in spring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Struck the hard cellar bottom. And then someone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Began the stairs, two footsteps for each step,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The way a man with one leg and a crutch,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or a little child, comes up. It wasn’t Toffile:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It wasn’t anyone who could be there.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The bulkhead double-doors were double-locked</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And swollen tight and buried under snow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The cellar windows were banked up with sawdust</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And swollen tight and buried under snow.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It was the bones. I knew them⁠—and good reason.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My first impulse was to get to the knob</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And hold the door. But the bones didn’t try</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The door; they halted helpless on the landing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Waiting for things to happen in their favor.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The faintest restless rustling ran all through them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I never could have done the thing I did</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If the wish hadn’t been too strong in me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To see how they were mounted for this walk.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I had a vision of them put together</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not like a man, but like a chandelier.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So suddenly I flung the door wide on him.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A moment he stood balancing with emotion,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And all but lost himself. (A tongue of fire</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flashed out and licked along his upper teeth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Smoke rolled inside the sockets of his eyes.)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then he came at me with one hand outstretched,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The way he did in life once; but this time</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I struck the hand off brittle on the floor,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And fell back from him on the floor myself.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The finger-pieces slid in all directions.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Where did I see one of those pieces lately?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hand me my button-box⁠—it must be there.)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I sat up on the floor and shouted, “Toffile,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It’s coming up to you.” It had its choice</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of the door to the cellar or the hall.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It took the hall door for the novelty,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And set off briskly for so slow a thing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Still going every which way in the joints, though,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So that it looked like lightning or a scribble,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the slap I had just now given its hand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I listened till it almost climbed the stairs</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the hall to the only finished bedroom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Before I got up to do anything;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then ran and shouted, “Shut the bedroom door,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Toffile, for my sake!” “Company,” he said,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Don’t make me get up; I’m too warm in bed.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So lying forward weakly on the handrail</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I pushed myself upstairs, and in the light</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(The kitchen had been dark) I had to own</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I could see nothing. “Toffile, I don’t see it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It’s with us in the room though. It’s the bones.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“What bones?” “The cellar bones⁠—out of the grave.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That made him throw his bare legs out of bed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And sit up by me and take hold of me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I wanted to put out the light and see</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If I could see it, or else mow the room,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With our arms at the level of our knees,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And bring the chalk-pile down. “I’ll tell you what⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It’s looking for another door to try.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The uncommonly deep snow has made him think</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of his old song, ‘The Wild Colonial Boy,’</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He always used to sing along the tote-road.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He’s after an open door to get out-doors.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Let’s trap him with an open door up attic.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Toffile agreed to that, and sure enough,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Almost the moment he was given an opening,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The steps began to climb the attic stairs.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I heard them. Toffile didn’t seem to hear them.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Quick!” I slammed to the door and held the knob.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Toffile, get nails.” I made him nail the door shut,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And push the headboard of the bed against it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then we asked was there anything</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Up attic that we’d ever want again.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The attic was less to us than the cellar.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If the bones liked the attic, let them have it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Let them stay in the attic. When they sometimes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come down the stairs at night and stand perplexed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Behind the door and headboard of the bed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Brushing their chalky skull with chalky fingers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With sounds like the dry rattling of a shutter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That’s what I sit up in the dark to say⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To no one any more since Toffile died.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Let them stay in the attic since they went there.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I promised Toffile to be cruel to them</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For helping them be cruel once to him.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Son.</i> We think they had a grave down in the cellar.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Mother.</i> We know they had a grave down in the cellar.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Son.</i> We never could find out whose bones they were.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i1"><i epub:type="z3998:persona">Mother.</i> Yes, we could too, son. Tell the truth for once.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They were a man’s his father killed for me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I mean a man he killed instead of me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The least I could do was to help dig their grave.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We were about it one night in the cellar.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Son knows the story: but ’twas not for him</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To tell the truth, suppose the time had come.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Son looks surprised to see me end a lie</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We’d kept all these years between ourselves</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So as to have it ready for outsiders.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But tonight I don’t care enough to lie⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I don’t remember why I ever cared.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Toffile, if he were here, I don’t believe</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Could tell you why he ever cared himself …</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>She hadn’t found the finger-bone she wanted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Among the buttons poured out in her lap.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I verified the name next morning: Toffile.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The rural letter-box said Toffile Lajway.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-pauper-witch-of-grafton" epub:type="part">
					<h4>
						<span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>
						<span epub:type="subtitle">The Pauper Witch of Grafton</span>
					</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Now that they’ve got it settled whose I be,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I’m going to tell them something they won’t like:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They’ve got it settled wrong, and I can prove it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Flattered I must be to have two towns fighting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To make a present of me to each other.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They don’t dispose me, either one of them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To spare them any trouble. Double trouble’s</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Always the witch’s motto anyway.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I’ll double theirs for both of them⁠—you watch me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They’ll find they’ve got the whole thing to do over,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That is, if facts is what they want to go by.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They set a lot (now don’t they?) by a record</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Arthur Amy’s having once been up</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Hog Reeve in March Meeting here in Warren.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I could have told them any time this twelvemonth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Arthur Amy I was married to</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Couldn’t have been the one they say was up</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Warren at March Meeting for the reason</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He wa’n’t but fifteen at the time they say.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Arthur Amy I was married to</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Voted the only times he ever voted,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which wasn’t many, in the town of Wentworth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One of the times was when ’twas in the warrant</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To see if the town wanted to take over</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The tote road to our clearing where we lived.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I’ll tell you who’d remember⁠—Heman Lapish.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their Arthur Amy was the father of mine.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So now they’ve dragged it through the law courts once</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I guess they’d better drag it through again.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wentworth and Warren’s both good towns to live in,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Only I happen to prefer to live</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In Wentworth from now on; and when all’s said,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Right’s right, and the temptation to do right</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When I can hurt someone by doing it</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Has always been too much for me, it has.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I know of some folks that’d be set up</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At having in their town a noted witch:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But most would have to think of the expense</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That even I would be. They ought to know</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That as a witch I’d often milk a bat</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And that’d be enough to last for days.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It’d make my position stronger, think,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If I was to consent to give some sign</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To make it surer that I was a witch?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It wa’n’t no sign, I s’pose, when Mallice Huse</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Said that I took him out in his old age</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And rode all over everything on him</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Until I’d had him worn to skin and bones.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And if I’d left him hitched unblanketed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In front of one Town Hall, I’d left him hitched</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In front of every one in Grafton County.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Some cried shame on me not to blanket him,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The poor old man. It would have been all right</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If some one hadn’t said to gnaw the posts</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He stood beside and leave his trade mark on them,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So they could recognize them. Not a post</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That they could hear tell of was scarified.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They made him keep on gnawing till he whined.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then that same smarty someone said to look⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He’d bet Huse was a cribber and had gnawed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The crib he slept in⁠—and as sure’s you’re born</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They found he’d gnawed the four posts of his bed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All four of them to splinters. What did that prove?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not that he hadn’t gnawed the hitching posts</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He said he had besides. Because a horse</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Gnaws in the stable ain’t no proof to me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He don’t gnaw trees and posts and fences too.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But everybody took it for a proof.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I was a strapping girl of twenty then.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The smarty someone who spoiled everything</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Was Arthur Amy. You know who he was.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That was the way he started courting me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He never said much after we were married,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But I mistrusted he was none too proud</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of having interfered in the Huse business.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I guess he found he got more out of me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By having me a witch. Or something happened</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To turn him round. He got to saying things</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To undo what he’d done and make it right,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Like, “No, she ain’t come back from kiting yet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Last night was one of her nights out. She’s kiting.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She thinks when the wind makes a night of it</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She might as well herself.” But he liked best</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To let on he was plagued to death with me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If anyone had seen me coming home</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Over the ridgepole, ’stride of a broomstick,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As often as he had in the tail of the night,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He guessed they’d know what he had to put up with.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Well, I showed Arthur Amy signs enough</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Off from the house as far as we could keep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And from barn smells you can’t wash out of ploughed ground</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With all the rain and snow of seven years;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I don’t mean just skulls of Roger’s Rangers</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On Moosilauke, but woman signs to man,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Only bewitched so I would last him longer.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Up where the trees grow short, the mosses tall,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I made him gather me wet snow berries</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On slippery rocks beside a waterfall.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I made him do it for me in the dark.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And he liked everything I made him do.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I hope if he is where he sees me now</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He’s so far off he can’t see what I’ve come to.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You <em>can</em> come down from everything to nothing.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All is, if I’d a-known when I was young</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And full of it, that this would be the end,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It doesn’t seem as if I’d had the courage</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To make so free and kick up in folks’ faces.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I might have, but it doesn’t seem as if.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="an-empty-threat" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Empty Threat</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I stay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it isn’t as if</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There wasn’t always Hudson’s Bay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the fur trade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A small skiff</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a paddle blade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I can just see my tent pegged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And me on the floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crosslegged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a trapper looking in at the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With furs to sell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His name’s Joe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alias John,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And between what he doesn’t know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And won’t tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About where Henry Hudson’s gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can’t say he’s much help;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But we get on.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The seal yelp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On an ice cake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s not men by some mistake?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s not a soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For a wind-break</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between me and the North Pole⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Except always John-Joe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My French Indian Esquimaux,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he’s off setting traps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In one himself perhaps.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Give a head shake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over so much bay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrown away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In snow and mist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That doesn’t exist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was going to say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For God, man or beast’s sake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet does perhaps for all three.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Don’t ask Joe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What it is to him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s sometimes dim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What it is to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless it be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s the old captain’s dark fate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who failed to find or force a strait</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In its two-thousand-mile coast;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his crew left him where he failed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nothing came of all he sailed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It’s to say, “You and I”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To such a ghost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Off here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the dead race of the Great Auk!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, “Better defeat almost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If seen clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than life’s victories of doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That need endless talk talk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make them out.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-fountain-a-bottle-a-donkeys-ears-and-some-books" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Fountain, a Bottle, a Donkey’s Ears and Some Books</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Old Davis owned a solid mica mountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Dalton that would some day make his fortune.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’d been some Boston people out to see it:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And experts said that deep down in the mountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mica sheets were big as plate glass windows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’d like to take me there and show it to me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I’ll tell you what you show me. You remember</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You said you knew the place where once, on Kinsman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The early Mormons made a settlement</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And built a stone baptismal font outdoors⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Smith, or some one, called them off the mountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To go West to a worse fight with the desert.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You said you’d seen the stone baptismal font.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, take me there.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">“Some day I will.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i15">“Today.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Huh, that old bath-tub, what is that to see?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let’s talk about it.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">“Let’s go see the place.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“To shut you up I’ll tell you what I’ll do:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll find that fountain if it takes all summer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And both of our united strengths, to do it.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You’ve lost it, then?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i9">“Not so but I can find it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No doubt it’s grown up some to woods around it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mountain may have shifted since I saw it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In eighty-five.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i6">“As long ago as that?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“If I remember rightly, it had sprung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A leak and emptied then. And forty years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can do a good deal to bad masonry.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You won’t see any Mormon swimming in it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you have said it, and we’re off to find it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old as I am, I’m going to let myself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be dragged by you all over everywhere⁠—”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I thought you were a guide.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i12">“I am a guide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that’s why I can’t decently refuse you.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We made a day of it out of the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ascending to descend to reascend.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old man seriously took his bearings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spoke his doubts in every open place.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We came out on a look-off where we faced</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cliff, and on the cliff a bottle painted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or stained by vegetation from above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A likeness to surprise the thrilly tourist.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Well, if I haven’t brought you to the fountain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At least I’ve brought you to the famous Bottle.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I won’t accept the substitute. It’s empty.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“So’s everything.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i7">“I want my fountain.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I guess you’d find the fountain just as empty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And anyway this tells me where I am.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Hadn’t you long suspected where you were?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You mean miles from that Mormon settlement?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look here, you treat your guide with due respect</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you don’t want to spend the night outdoors.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I vow we must be near the place from where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The two converging slides, the avalanches,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Marshall, look like donkey’s ears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We may as well see that and save the day.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Don’t donkey’s ears suggest we shake our own?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“For God’s sake, aren’t you fond of viewing nature?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You don’t like nature. All you like is books.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What signify a donkey’s ears and bottle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>However natural? Give you your books!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well then, right here is where I show you books.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come straight down off this mountain just as fast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As we can fall and keep a-bouncing on our feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s hell for knees unless done hell-for-leather.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Be ready,” I thought, “for almost anything.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We struck a road I didn’t recognize,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But welcomed for the chance to lave my shoes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In dust once more. We followed this a mile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps, to where it ended at a house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I didn’t know was there. It was the kind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bring me to for broad-board panelling.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never saw so good a house deserted.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Excuse me if I ask you in a window</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That happens to be broken,” Davis said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The outside doors as yet have held against us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I want to introduce you to the people</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who used to live here. They were Robinsons.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You must have heard of Clara Robinson,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poetess who wrote the book of verses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And had it published. It was all about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The posies on her inner window sill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the birds on her outer window sill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And how she tended both, or had them tended:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She never tended anything herself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was ‘shut in’ for life. She lived her whole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Life long in bed, and wrote her things in bed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll show you how she had her sills extended</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To entertain the birds and hold the flowers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our business first’s up attic with her books.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We trod uncomfortably on crunching glass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through a house stripped of everything</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except, it seemed, the poetess’s poems.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Books, I should say!⁠—if books are what is needed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A whole edition in a packing-case,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, overflowing like a horn of plenty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or like the poetess’s heart of love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had spilled them near the window toward the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where driven rain had wet and swollen them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough to stock a village library⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unfortunately all of one kind, though.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They had been brought home from some publisher</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And taken thus into the family.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boys and bad hunters had known what to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With stone and lead to unprotected glass:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shatter it inward on the unswept floors.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How had the tender verse escaped their outrage?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By being invisible for what it was,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or else by some remoteness that defied them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To find out what to do to hurt a poem.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet oh! the tempting flatness of a book,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To send it sailing out the attic window</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till it caught the wind, and, opening out its covers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tried to improve on sailing like a tile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By flying like a bird (silent in flight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all the burden of its body song),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only to tumble like a stricken bird,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lie in stones and bushes unretrieved.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Books were not thrown irreverently about.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They simply lay where some one now and then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Having tried one, had dropped it at his feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And left it lying where it fell rejected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here were all those the poetess’s life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had been too short to sell or give away.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Take one,” Old Davis bade me graciously.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Why not take two or three?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i12">“Take all you want.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good-looking books like that.” He picked one fresh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In virgin wrapper from deep in the box,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stroked it with a horny-handed kindness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He read in one and I read in another,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both either looking for or finding something.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The attic wasps went missing by like bullets.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I was soon satisfied for the time being.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All the way home I kept remembering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The small book in my pocket. It was there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poetess had sighed, I knew, in heaven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At having eased her heart of one more copy⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Legitimately. My demand upon her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though slight, was a demand. She felt the tug.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In time she would be rid of all her books.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="i-will-sing-you-one-o" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">I Will Sing You One-O</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was long I lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Awake that night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wishing the tower</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would name the hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tell me whether</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To call it day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Though not yet light)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give up sleep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The snow fell deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the hiss of spray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two winds would meet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One down one street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One down another,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fight in a smother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of dust and feather.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could not say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But feared the cold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had checked the pace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the tower clock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By tying together</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its hands of gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before its face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then came one knock!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A note unruffled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of earthly weather,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though strange and muffled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tower said, “One!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then a steeple.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They spoke to themselves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And such few people</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As winds might rouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From sleeping warm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(But not unhouse).</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They left the storm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That struck en masse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My window glass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a beaded fur.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that grave One</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They spoke of the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And moon and stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saturn and Mars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Jupiter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still more unfettered,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They left the named</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spoke of the lettered,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sigmas and taus</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of constellations.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They filled their throats</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the furthest bodies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To which man sends his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speculation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond which God is;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cosmic motes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of yawning lenses.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their solemn peals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were not their own:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They spoke for the clock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With whose vast wheels</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Theirs interlock.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In that grave word</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Uttered alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The utmost star</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trembled and stirred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though set so far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its whirling frenzies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Appear like standing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In one self station.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It has not ranged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And save for the wonder</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of once expanding</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be a nova,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It has not changed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the eye of man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On planets over</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around and under</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It in creation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since man began</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To drag down man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nation nation.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<section id="grace-notes" epub:type="part">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Grace Notes</h2>
			<article id="fragmentary-blue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fragmentary Blue</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Why make so much of fragmentary blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In here and there a bird, or butterfly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or flower, or wearing-stone, or open eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When heaven presents in sheets the solid hue?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Since earth is earth, perhaps, not heaven (as yet)⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though some savants make earth include the sky;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blue so far above us comes so high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It only gives our wish for blue a whet.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fire-and-ice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fire and Ice</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Some say the world will end in fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some say in ice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From what I’ve tasted of desire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hold with those who favor fire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if it had to perish twice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think I know enough of hate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To say that for destruction ice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is also great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And would suffice.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-a-disused-graveyard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In a Disused Graveyard</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The living come with grassy tread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To read the gravestones on the hill;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The graveyard draws the living still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But never any more the dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The verses in it say and say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The ones who living come today</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To read the stones and go away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tomorrow dead will come to stay.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So sure of death the marbles rhyme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet can’t help marking all the time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How no one dead will seem to come.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What is it men are shrinking from?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It would be easy to be clever</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tell the stones: Men hate to die</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And have stopped dying now forever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think they would believe the lie.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dust-of-snow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Dust of Snow</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The way a crow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shook down on me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dust of snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From a hemlock tree</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Has given my heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A change of mood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saved some part</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a day I had rued.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-e-t" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To <abbr class="name">E. T.</abbr></h3>
				<p>
					<span>I slumbered with your poems on my breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread open as I dropped them half-read through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like dove wings on a figure on a tomb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see, if in a dream they brought of you,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I might not have the chance I missed in life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through some delay, and call you to your face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>First soldier, and then poet, and then both,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who died a soldier-poet of your race.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I meant, you meant, that nothing should remain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsaid between us, brother, and this remained⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one thing more that was not then to say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Victory for what it lost and gained.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You went to meet the shell’s embrace of fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Vimy Ridge; and when you fell that day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The war seemed over more for you than me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now for me than you⁠—the other way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How over, though, for even me who knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The foe thrust back unsafe beyond the Rhine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I was not to speak of it to you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And see you pleased once more with words of mine?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="nothing-gold-can-stay" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Nothing Gold Can Stay</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Nature’s first green is gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her hardest hue to hold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her early leaf’s a flower;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But only so an hour.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then leaf subsides to leaf.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Eden sank to grief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So dawn goes down to day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing gold can stay.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-runaway" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Runaway</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once when the snow of the year was beginning to fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We stopped by a mountain pasture to say, “Whose colt?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little Morgan had one forefoot on the wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The other curled at his breast. He dipped his head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And snorted at us. And then he had to bolt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We heard the miniature thunder where he fled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we saw him, or thought we saw him, dim and grey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a shadow against the curtain of falling flakes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I think the little fellow’s afraid of the snow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He isn’t winter-broken. It isn’t play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the little fellow at all. He’s running away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I doubt if even his mother could tell him, ‘Sakes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s only weather.’ He’d think she didn’t know!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where is his mother? He can’t be out alone.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now he comes again with clatter of stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mounts the wall again with whited eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all his tail that isn’t hair up straight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shudders his coat as if to throw off flies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Whoever it is that leaves him out so late,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When other creatures have gone to stall and bin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ought to be told to come and take him in.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-aim-was-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Aim Was Song</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Before man came to blow it right</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The wind once blew itself untaught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And did its loudest day and night</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In any rough place where it caught.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Man came to tell it what was wrong:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It hadn’t found the place to blow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It blew too hard⁠—the aim was song.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And listen⁠—how it ought to go!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He took a little in his mouth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And held it long enough for north</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be converted into south,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And then by measure blew it forth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By measure. It was word and note,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The wind the wind had meant to be⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little through the lips and throat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The aim was song⁠—the wind could see.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="stopping-by-woods-on-a-snowy-evening" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Whose woods these are I think I know.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His house is in the village though;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will not see me stopping here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To watch his woods fill up with snow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My little horse must think it queer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stop without a farmhouse near</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between the woods and frozen lake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The darkest evening of the year.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He gives his harness bells a shake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To ask if there is some mistake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The only other sound’s the sweep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of easy wind and downy flake.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The woods are lovely, dark and deep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I have promises to keep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And miles to go before I sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And miles to go before I sleep.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-once-then-something" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Once, Then, Something</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Others taunt me with having knelt at well-curbs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Always wrong to the light, so never seeing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deeper down in the well than where the water</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gives me back in a shining surface picture</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me myself in the summer heaven godlike</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looking out of a wreath of fern and cloud puffs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>Once</em>, when trying with chin against a well-curb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I discerned, as I thought, beyond the picture,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the picture, a something white, uncertain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something more of the depths⁠—and then I lost it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Water came to rebuke the too clear water.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One drop fell from a fern, and lo, a ripple</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shook whatever it was lay there at bottom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blurred it, blotted it out. What was that whiteness?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Truth? A pebble of quartz? For once, then, something.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="blue-butterfly-days" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Blue-Butterfly Day</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is blue-butterfly day here in spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with these sky-flakes down in flurry on flurry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is more unmixed color on the wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than flowers will show for days unless they hurry.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But these are flowers that fly and all but sing:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now from having ridden out desire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They lie closed over in the wind and cling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where wheels have freshly sliced the April mire.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-onset" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Onset</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Always the same, when on a fated night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last the gathered snow lets down as white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As may be in dark woods, and with a song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It shall not make again all winter long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of hissing on the yet uncovered ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I almost stumble looking up and round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As one who overtaken by the end</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gives up his errand, and lets death descend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon him where he is, with nothing done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To evil, no important triumph won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More than if life had never been begun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet all the precedent is on my side:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know that winter death has never tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The earth but it has failed: the snow may heap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In long storms an undrifted four feet deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As measured against maple, birch and oak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It cannot check the peeper’s silver croak;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I shall see the snow all go down hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In water of a slender April rill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That flashes tail through last year’s withered brake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dead weeds, like a disappearing snake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing will be left white but here a birch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there a clump of houses with a church.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-earthward" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Earthward</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Love at the lips was touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As sweet as I could bear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And once that seemed too much;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I lived on air</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That crossed me from sweet things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flow of⁠—was it musk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From hidden grapevine springs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down hill at dusk?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I had the swirl and ache</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From sprays of honeysuckle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That when they’re gathered shake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dew on the knuckle.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I craved strong sweets, but those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed strong when I was young;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The petal of the rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was that stung.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now no joy but lacks salt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is not dashed with pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And weariness and fault;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I crave the stain</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of tears, the aftermark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of almost too much love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sweet of bitter bark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And burning clove.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When stiff and sore and scarred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I take away my hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From leaning on it hard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In grass and sand,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The hurt is not enough:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I long for weight and strength</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To feel the earth as rough</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To all my length.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="good-bye-and-keep-cold" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Good-Bye and Keep Cold</h3>
				<p>
					<span>This saying good-bye on the edge of the dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cold to an orchard so young in the bark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reminds me of all that can happen to harm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An orchard away at the end of the farm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All winter, cut off by a hill from the house.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t want it girdled by rabbit and mouse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t want it dreamily nibbled for browse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By deer, and I don’t want it budded by grouse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(If certain it wouldn’t be idle to call</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d summon grouse, rabbit, and deer to the wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And warn them away with a stick for a gun.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t want it stirred by the heat of the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(We made it secure against being, I hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By setting it out on a northerly slope.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No orchard’s the worse for the wintriest storm;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But one thing about it, it mustn’t get warm.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“How often already you’ve had to be told,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keep cold, young orchard. Good-bye and keep cold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dread fifty above more than fifty below.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have to be gone for a season or so.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My business awhile is with different trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Less carefully nourished, less fruitful than these,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And such as is done to their wood with an axe⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Maples and birches and tamaracks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wish I could promise to lie in the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And think of an orchard’s arboreal plight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When slowly (and nobody comes with a light)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its heart sinks lower under the sod.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But something has to be left to God.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-look-at-two" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Look at Two</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Love and forgetting might have carried them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little further up the mountain side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With night so near, but not much further up.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They must have halted soon in any case</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With thoughts of the path back, how rough it was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With rock and washout, and unsafe in darkness;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When they were halted by a tumbled wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With barbed-wire binding. They stood facing this,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spending what onward impulse they still had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In one last look the way they must not go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On up the failing path, where, if a stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or earthslide moved at night, it moved itself;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No footstep moved it. “This is all,” they sighed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Good-night to woods.” But not so; there was more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A doe from round a spruce stood looking at them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across the wall, as near the wall as they.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She saw them in their field, they her in hers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The difficulty of seeing what stood still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like some up-ended boulder split in two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was in her clouded eyes: they saw no fear there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She seemed to think that two thus they were safe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, as if they were something that, though strange,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She could not trouble her mind with too long,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She sighed and passed unscared along the wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“<em>This</em>, then, is all. What more is there to ask?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But no, not yet. A snort to bid them wait.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A buck from round the spruce stood looking at them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across the wall as near the wall as they.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This was an antlered buck of lusty nostril,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not the same doe come back into her place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He viewed them quizzically with jerks of head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if to ask, “Why don’t you make some motion?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or give some sign of life? Because you can’t.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I doubt if you’re as living as you look.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus till he had them almost feeling dared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stretch a proffering hand⁠—and a spell-breaking.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then he too passed unscared along the wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two had seen two, whichever side you spoke from.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“This <em>must</em> be all.” It was all. Still they stood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A great wave from it going over them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if the earth in one unlooked-for favor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had made them certain earth returned their love.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="not-to-keep" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Not to Keep</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They sent him back to her. The letter came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saying … And she could have him. And before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She could be sure there was no hidden ill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the formal writing, he was in her sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Living. They gave him back to her alive⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How else? They are not known to send the dead⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And not disfigured visibly. His face?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hands? She had to look, to ask,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What is it, dear?” And she had given all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still she had all⁠—<em>they</em> had⁠—they the lucky!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wasn’t she glad now? Everything seemed won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the rest for them permissible ease.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She had to ask, “What was it, dear?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i14">“Enough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet not enough. A bullet through and through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High in the breast. Nothing but what good care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And medicine and rest, and you a week,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can cure me of to go again.” The same</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grim giving to do over for them both.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She dared no more than ask him with her eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How was it with him for a second trial.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with his eyes he asked her not to ask.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They had given him back to her, but not to keep.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-brook-in-the-city" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Brook in the City</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The farm house lingers, though averse to square</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the new city street it has to wear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A number in. But what about the brook</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That held the house as in an elbow-crook?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ask as one who knew the brook, its strength</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And impulse, having dipped a finger length</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made it leap my knuckle, having tossed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A flower to try its currents where they crossed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The meadow grass could be cemented down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From growing under pavements of a town;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The apple trees be sent to hearth-stone flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is water wood to serve a brook the same?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How else dispose of an immortal force</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer needed? Staunch it at its source</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With cinder loads dumped down? The brook was thrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deep in a sewer dungeon under stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fetid darkness still to live and run⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all for nothing it had ever done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except forget to go in fear perhaps.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No one would know except for ancient maps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That such a brook ran water. But I wonder</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If from its being kept forever under</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thoughts may not have risen that so keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This new-built city from both work and sleep.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-kitchen-chimney" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Kitchen Chimney</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Builder, in building the little house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In every way you may please yourself;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But please please me in the kitchen chimney:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t build me a chimney upon a shelf.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>However far you must go for bricks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whatever they cost a-piece or a pound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Buy me enough for a full-length chimney,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And build the chimney clear from the ground.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It’s not that I’m greatly afraid of fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I never heard of a house that throve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(And I know of one that didn’t thrive)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the chimney started above the stove.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And I dread the ominous stain of tar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That there always is on the papered walls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the smell of fire drowned in rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That there always is when the chimney’s false.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A shelf’s for a clock or vase or picture,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I don’t see why it should have to bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A chimney that only would serve to remind me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of castles I used to build in air.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="looking-for-a-sunset-bird-in-winter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Looking for a Sunset Bird in Winter</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The west was getting out of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The breath of air had died of cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When shoeing home across the white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought I saw a bird alight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In summer when I passed the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had to stop and lift my face;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A bird with an angelic gift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was singing in it sweet and swift.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No bird was singing in it now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A single leaf was on a bough,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that was all there was to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In going twice around the tree.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From my advantage on a hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I judged that such a crystal chill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was only adding frost to snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As gilt to gold that wouldn’t show.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A brush had left a crooked stroke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what was either cloud or smoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From north to south across the blue;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A piercing little star was through.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-boundless-moment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Boundless Moment</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He halted in the wind, and⁠—what was that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far in the maples, pale, but not a ghost?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stood there bringing March against his thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet too ready to believe the most.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Oh, that’s the Paradise-in-bloom,” I said;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And truly it was fair enough for flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had we but in us to assume in March</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such white luxuriance of May for ours.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We stood a moment so in a strange world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Myself as one his own pretense deceives;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then I said the truth (and we moved on):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A young beech clinging to its last year’s leaves.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="evening-in-a-sugar-orchard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Evening in a Sugar Orchard</h3>
				<p>
					<span>From where I lingered in a lull in March</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outside the sugar-house one night for choice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I called the fireman with a careful voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bade him leave the pan and stoke the arch:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O fireman, give the fire another stoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And send more sparks up chimney with the smoke.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I thought a few might tangle, as they did,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among bare maple boughs, and in the rare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hill atmosphere not cease to glow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so be added to the moon up there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The moon, though slight, was moon enough to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On every tree a bucket with a lid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on black ground a bear-skin rug of snow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sparks made no attempt to be the moon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They were content to figure in the trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Leo, Orion, and the Pleiades.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that was what the boughs were full of soon.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="gathering-leaves" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Gathering Leaves</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Spades take up leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No better than spoons,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bags full of leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are light as balloons.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I make a great noise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of rustling all day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like rabbit and deer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Running away.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But the mountains I raise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Elude my embrace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flowing over my arms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And into my face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I may load and unload</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again and again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till I fill the whole shed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what have I then?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Next to nothing for weight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And since they grew duller</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From contact with earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Next to nothing for color.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Next to nothing for use.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a crop is a crop,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who’s to say where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The harvest shall stop?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-valleys-singing-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Valley’s Singing Day</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The sound of the closing outside door was all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You made no sound in the grass with your footfall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As far as you went from the door, which was not far;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you had awakened under the morning star</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The first song-bird that awakened all the rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He could have slept but a moment more at best.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Already determined dawn began to lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In place across a cloud the slender ray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For prying beneath and forcing the lids of sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loosing the pent-up music of over-night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But dawn was not to begin their “pearly-pearly”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(By which they mean the rain is pearls so early,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before it changes to diamonds in the sun),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Neither was song that day to be self-begun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You had begun it, and if there needed proof⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was asleep still under the dripping roof,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My window curtain hung over the sill to wet;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I should awake to confirm your story yet;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I should be willing to say and help you say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That once you had opened the valley’s singing day.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="misgiving" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Misgiving</h3>
				<p>
					<span>All crying “We will go with you, O Wind!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The foliage follow him, leaf and stem;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a sleep oppresses them as they go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they end by bidding him stay with them.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Since ever they flung abroad in spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The leaves had promised themselves this flight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who now would fain seek sheltering wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or thicket, or hollow place for the night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And now they answer his summoning blast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an ever vaguer and vaguer stir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or at utmost a little reluctant whirl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That drops them no further than where they were.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I only hope that when I am free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As they are free to go in quest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the knowledge beyond the bounds of life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It may not seem better to me to rest.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-hillside-thaw" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Hillside Thaw</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To think to know the country and not know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hillside on the day the sun lets go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ten million silver lizards out of snow!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As often as I’ve seen it done before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can’t pretend to tell the way it’s done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It looks as if some magic of the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lifted the rug that bred them on the floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the light breaking on them made them run.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if I thought to stop the wet stampede,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And caught one silver lizard by the tail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And put my foot on one without avail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And threw myself wet-elbowed and wet-kneed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In front of twenty others’ wriggling speed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the confusion of them all aglitter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And birds that joined in the excited fun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By doubling and redoubling song and twitter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have no doubt I’d end by holding none.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It takes the moon for this. The sun’s a wizard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By all I tell; but so’s the moon a witch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the high west she makes a gentle cast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And suddenly, without a jerk or twitch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She has her spell on every single lizard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I fancied when I looked at six o’clock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The swarm still ran and scuttled just as fast.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The moon was waiting for her chill effect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I looked at nine: the swarm was turned to rock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In every lifelike posture of the swarm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Transfixed on mountain slopes almost erect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across each other and side by side they lay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The spell that so could hold them as they were</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was wrought through trees without a breath of storm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make a leaf, if there had been one, stir.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was the moon’s: she held them until day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One lizard at the end of every ray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thought of my attempting such a stay!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="plowmen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Plowmen</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A plow, they say, to plow the snow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They cannot mean to plant it, though⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless in bitterness to mock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At having cultivated rock.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-a-tree-fallen-across-the-road" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">
						<span>On a Tree Fallen Across the Road</span>
					</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">(To hear us talk)</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The tree the tempest with a crash of wood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throws down in front of us is not to bar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our passage to our journey’s end for good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But just to ask us who we think we are</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Insisting always on our own way so.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She likes to halt us in our runner tracks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And make us get down in a foot of snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Debating what to do without an axe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And yet she knows obstruction is in vain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We will not be put off the final goal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have it hidden in us to attain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not though we have to seize earth by the pole</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And, tired of aimless circling in one place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Steer straight off after something into space.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="our-singing-strength" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Our Singing Strength</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It snowed in spring on earth so dry and warm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flakes could find no landing place to form.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hordes spent themselves to make it wet and cold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still they failed of any lasting hold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They made no white impression on the black.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They disappeared as if earth sent them back.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not till from separate flakes they changed at night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To almost strips and tapes of ragged white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did grass and garden ground confess it snowed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all go back to winter but the road.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Next day the scene was piled and puffed and dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grass lay flattened under one great tread.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Borne down until the end almost took root,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rangey bough anticipated fruit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With snowballs cupped in every opening bud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The road alone maintained itself in mud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whatever its secret was of greater heat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From inward fires or brush of passing feet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In spring more mortal singers than belong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To any one place cover us with song.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrush, bluebird, blackbird, sparrow, and robin throng;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some to go further north to Hudson’s Bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some that have come too far north back away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Really a very few to build and stay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now was seen how these liked belated snow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fields had nowhere left for them to go;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’d soon exhausted all there was in flying;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The trees they’d had enough of with once trying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And setting off their heavy powder load.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They could find nothing open but the road.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So there they let their lives be narrowed in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By thousands the bad weather made akin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The road became a channel running flocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of glossy birds like ripples over rocks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I drove them under foot in bits of flight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That kept the ground, almost disputing right</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of way with me from apathy of wing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A talking twitter all they had to sing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A few I must have driven to despair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made quick asides, but having done in air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A whir among white branches great and small</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As in some too much carven marble hall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where one false wing beat would have brought down all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came tamely back in front of me, the Drover,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To suffer the same driven nightmare over.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One such storm in a lifetime couldn’t teach them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That back behind pursuit it couldn’t reach them;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None flew behind me to be left alone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, something for a snowstorm to have shown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The country’s singing strength thus brought together,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That though repressed and moody with the weather</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was none the less there ready to be freed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sing the wildflowers up from root and seed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-lockless-door" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Lockless Door</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It went many years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But at last came a knock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I thought of the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With no lock to lock.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I blew out the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I tip-toed the floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And raised both hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In prayer to the door.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But the knock came again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My window was wide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I climbed on the sill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And descended outside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Back over the sill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I bade a “Come in”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To whatever the knock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the door may have been.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So at a knock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I emptied my cage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hide in the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And alter with age.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-need-of-being-versed-in-country-things" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Need of Being Versed in Country Things</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The house had gone to bring again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the midnight sky a sunset glow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now the chimney was all of the house that stood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a pistil after the petals go.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The barn opposed across the way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That would have joined the house in flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had it been the will of the wind, was left</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bear forsaken the place’s name.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No more it opened with all one end</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For teams that came by the stony road</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To drum on the floor with scurrying hoofs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And brush the mow with the summer load.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The birds that came to it through the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At broken windows flew out and in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their murmur more like the sigh we sigh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From too much dwelling on what has been.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet for them the lilac renewed its leaf,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the aged elm, though touched with fire;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the dry pump flung up an awkward arm;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the fence post carried a strand of wire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For them there was really nothing sad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But though they rejoiced in the nest they kept,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One had to be versed in country things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not to believe the phoebes wept.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
